>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Do you have a gift of healing?
And would you like to
learn how to activate
that gift of healing
deep inside yourself?
Well, joining me today is master
energy healer Deborah King.
And she's here to talk about
how to awaken our own healing
energy so we can start to heal
ourselves, and then, in turn,
heal others.
Deborah, herself, is a New
York Times best selling author.
She's the creator of
LifeForce Energy Healing.
It's a course that we're
going to be getting a chance
to experience later
on in the show.
And we're going to go on a
journey into our 8th chakra.
Welcome, thanks for being here.
>>DEBORAH KING: Great,
I'm delighted to be here.
>>LISA: I am excited.
I want to learn about the 8th
chakra and how to-- I think
that this is--
>>KING: And beyond.
>>LISA: Yes, and beyond, right?
So how did you get started?
What started you on
your whole journey here,
what was the spark?
>>KING: Oh, Lisa.
My goodness, it was so long
ago and it was so unexpected.
So I was just out of law school.
Young lawyer, on the fast track
to, I hoped, corporate success.
Just six months out, and
woke up with cancer one day.
Really unexpected.
>>LISA: Woke up one
day with cancer.
>>KING: Yes.
>>LISA: No sign?
>>KING: Nope, no signs.
>>LISA: What kind
of cancer was it?
>>KING: You know, it was
of the female organs.
And I was really puzzled
about the whole thing.
And so I went to the
doctors and I said,
would you give me some time?
They wanted to do surgery and
I asked them for six months.
And they said, it's slow
growing, we can do that.
I was just a young
woman, I wasn't
anxious to lose my
ability to have children.
So I got off my life for just
a minute and looked at myself.
And I'd never done that before.
Now, you know that's
fashionable these days,
but back then it wasn't, and
nobody else was doing it.
>>LISA: Wait, you said
something interesting.
"I got off my life
and looked at it."
What do you mean?
>>KING: Well, I was just
busy moving forward as fast
as I could.
I had never stopped and thought,
who am I and what am I doing?
So I literally stepped off
of it like it was a treadmill
and I looked at it
and I was like, oh no.
Because I knew,
secretly in my heart,
I knew I had addiction issues.
I didn't want to face them.
And it was popular at the time.
I was using the drugs of
choice, I was drinking too much,
I was taking too much Valium.
And so I went to
12 Step programs.
That's the first thing I did.
And I got a lot
of clarity there.
The second thing I did
within a matter of weeks
was I learned to meditate.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KING: I have no idea where
I was inspired to do that.
>>LISA: None of the
12 Step programs?
It was just something that you--
>>KING: No, just
out of the blue.
And I learned to meditate and
got a whole bunch more clarity
really fast.
So at that point, I
went back to my doctors.
I was maybe a month into
this thing, and I said,
I'm going to look around
at alternative medicine.
And they said, what's that?
No one knew, you
know, it was so new.
So I started dipping
my toe very carefully.
I was very skeptical, being
a lawyer and everything.
I was very scientific,
and very left brain.
And I tried a little
this, a little that.
I went to a massage
therapist and she
suggested I see
an energy healer.
I thought, what's that?
It sounds weird.
I'm up for it.
>>LISA: When was this?
Sounds weird.
>>KING: It was more
than 25 years ago.
So I went to see this energy
healer, and she must have been,
I'm sure, very psychic, because
she dressed appropriately
for the day.
She came in in a suit.
So I was like, we look the same.
And I was like [SIGH OF RELIEF].
You know how reassuring that is.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KING: Yeah.
So I saw her three times, and
I had an amazing remission
right on her table.
>>LISA: Really?
>>KING: Yep.
I knew it, she knew it.
I could feel it.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
Then what did you do?
>>KING: We talked about it.
I left her office and
promptly the next day
went back to the
teaching hospital
where I was being seen, because
I wanted verifiable proof.
Being a good red-blooded
American, I wanted an x-ray.
And they said, hey,
you've had what
we call a spontaneous remission.
>>LISA: You're kidding me.
>>KING: Uh-uh.
>>LISA: Oh my god.
And it was at that
moment that you probably
just said, sign me up.
What is this?
>>KING: I did.
And I knew that this
gal that I had seen,
I had heard somewhere
that she had
some kind of a teaching program.
And I thought, I'm going
to go learn this stuff.
I'm just curious.
I kept saying for years, I just
kept saying, I'm just curious,
I'm not getting involved,
I'm busy being a lawyer.
>>LISA: So you didn't make any
mental choices, or switches?
I mean, you said that you
stopped many of the addictions
and you started to look within.
>>KING: That's all I had done.
That's it.
>>LISA: You just looked.
You didn't make any testaments
to your life, to change?
You didn't change your
relationships, your location,
you just--
>>KING: I didn't change
my mindset either.
>>LISA: You didn't?
Wow.
>>KING: Except I opened
myself to other possibilities.
So I'll tell you the funny
thing that happened next.
So I'm walking out of this
teaching hospital in San
Francisco and I'm thinking,
I'm going to call that gal
and go study her stuff.
I went down the steps to
the curb to catch a cab,
I tripped over a
kiosk on the curb,
and as I was
catching my balance,
I saw inside something written
that said the word, healing.
Caught my eye.
It seemed somewhat
serendipitous,
so I took it back to the
hotel with me and I read it,
and I was like, oh no,
it sounded religious.
And I thought, [GROAN].
I had a limiting belief.
Like so many
20-somethings, I had
thrown the baby, the
bathwater, the whole thing out.
And wasn't going to do religion.
So I had to discard my limiting
belief to call these people.
I was so curious about them.
Something about
healing through prayer.
And I called them,
and I met with them,
and I ended up staying 10 years.
It was quite a moment.
Quite a big deal.
>>LISA: So you never went
back to being an attorney?
>>KING: Nope.
Well, no, I continue to
practice law to pay the bills.
>>LISA: Oh, you did?
>>KING: Oh yeah, I had a day
job until I was pushing 50.
I kept my day job.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>KING: Oh, you have to.
>>LISA: Yes, I know.
But many people
just, they do, they
throw the baby out
with the bathwater.
>>KING: I didn't
throw that baby out.
I kept that one.
But this group, that I
call esoteric Christians
because they're
not around anymore.
They could have just as
well been esoteric Jewish,
or esoteric Islamic.
It was very ancient
teachings that actually,
all the traditions share,
I later discovered.
And I did, I stayed
with them 10 years
and I learned some
amazing techniques.
>>LISA: Is that where you had
your original introduction
to energy medicine?
>>KING: But they wouldn't
have ever called it that.
They called it something else.
Finally-- sadly, I left them.
It was a very sad parting
because they were amazing.
They were wonderful.
They were also dying out.
They were people in their
90s, they were very elderly.
>>LISA: Is that why you left?
>>KING: I left
because I still wanted
to learn that hands-on
thing I had seen
the woman do that I
had the remission with.
So I wanted to go
back and learn that.
And I knew it was different.
I didn't know how
different, just different.
So I-- sadly, I
left these people,
but took all their
teachings with me.
>>LISA: For 10 years, yeah.
>>KING: And I enrolled
in that gal's school,
from way back when.
So I show up, day one.
I'm still wearing my little
round collar, my pearls.
You know, still a lawyer,
I've got my little yellow pad.
And I sit way in the back of the
room, I'm going to take notes,
I'm thinking.
What did I know?
And all of a sudden,
about an hour in,
she points at me in
the back of the room.
And she says, you back there.
She doesn't recognize
me, 10 years, you know.
She says, stand up.
And I stood up.
And she goes,
where did you learn
to do that distance
healing stuff you're doing?
Because she was working
with people up front.
I went oh, oh, where I'm
from they call that prayer.
You see?
So it was all the same.
It was all the same.
>>LISA: So she sensed what you
were doing in the techniques
that you had learned.
>>KING: So she just had
a different name for it,
she called it distance healing,
and they called it prayer.
>>LISA: Yeah, and we have
different names for God.
There's different names for
so many different things,
but it's all the same frequency.
Well, in different intensities.
>>KING: It is.
It's a vibration, absolutely.
>>LISA: Different
intensities, though.
And people's belief
systems contribute
to those intensities.
So you saw her, and you started
a journey on hands-on healing.
>>KING: I did.
And that was a lengthy program,
it was four years long.
And I ended up
staying and teaching,
actually, in that school for
another half a dozen years
or so.
I also followed
ministers, and priests,
and rabbis around for a while.
And did my thesis on what
kind of energy, if any,
they were working with
when they did healings.
In all of these religions
they do some sort of-- you
know, very quiet usually
over in the side chapel--
they do some kind
of healing work.
>>LISA: So these are
things that you studied,
that you researched,
that you spent time with?
You weren't born
with the gift, and it
didn't come from the
knock on the head?
>>KING: Not that
I know of, nope.
>>LISA: I love that.
I love the practicality
because it shows people
that every single
person can do this.
>>KING: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Now, it might not
take 15 years, it might.
It depends on what your
journey is, what your path is.
>>KING: Someone else might
take five minutes, really.
So every single one of us is
actually a natural born healer.
We have all of this
information deeply
embedded in our cellular
memory and we've just
misplaced it slightly.
Culturally, we're under a
lot of pressure these days.
And so we forget we
have these talents.
But you ask just about
anybody on the street, hey,
do you know when you're child's
gonna call-- the school's going
to call because your kid's sick
before they-- Oh, I sense it.
Or can you tell
who is calling you
before you look
at your caller ID?
Often you can.
>>LISA: I think this
is going to become,
it's going to bypass cellphones.
I mean, it is the
future of communication.
>>KING: Right.
It's a whole different channel.
>>LISA: Telepathy, absolutely.
So then, tell us how you, then,
started you on your journey
with John of God and how you
discovered a different healing
direction?
I mean, it's the same really.
>>KING: It is.
And so after I had
spent years teaching
what I would call
chakra-based healing, that's
the energy school kind of
thing, it's all Hindu teachings.
And it was interesting.
I'll tell you
something Lisa, I found
that the esoteric Christians
had really strong connection
to source, but their
techniques were pretty bad,
and they got banged up a lot.
In fact, when I followed
those ministers,
and rabbis, and
whatnot around, I
could tell which ones
were really connected.
But they had no ability
to protect themselves,
they hadn't been taught that.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
That's what you mean.
>>KING: Yes.
And over in the formal
Hindu chakra-based trainings
that I received, they had
great technique handed down
over the years through the
'40s, '50s, '60s in the US.
It's very strong here.
And then they had
lost their connection.
So I married the two together.
>>LISA: So the
technique, though,
would be skills, tools of
protection, hands-on healing
and so forth.
But then it got clouded,
that pure, just connection
to the source.
>>KING: Then I went to Asia
and I spent a lot of time
there, mainly with the Nepalese.
A lot of time studying there.
And I've also spent,
as you mentioned,
time in South America with a
lot of shamanic traditions,
including John of God's.
>>LISA: Did you find a
theme amongst everything
that works specifically for you,
or did you take a little bit
from each?
>>KING: I took a
little from each.
They all have an underlying
consistent theme.
>>LISA: Which is?
>>KING: Of vibration,
as you just mentioned.
It's all vibratory.
They have different
words for it.
In Mexico they call
it the luminous body.
And in India they call it the
chakras, and the energy field.
But it's all the same,
it's all the same.
>>LISA: Even in science
they call it frequency.
>>KING: Yeah, or the
unified field, in science.
It's all the same.
>>LISA: That's where
it all comes together,
is through frequency
and vibration.
Through all of the
different texts
that you studied
over the two decades,
you learned about
frequency and vibration.
So is that what you teach now?
>>KING: In a way.
That might be the
foundational item.
You're right.
I often use music
analogies, I mean,
there's so many different
ways to teach it,
but it's experiential.
So you can teach the basics in
a more cerebral, left-brain kind
of thing.
But then to really teach
the higher techniques,
it has to be pretty
much in-person.
Because it's an experience.
People have to feel
it in their bodies.
Although I'm finding that
people write all the time,
they email all the time from a
live stream, and they're like,
I felt it.
>>LISA: Yes, right.
Something that you have recorded
that holds the frequency
and that people can watch later
and get the same frequency.
We're going to watch one
of those in a little bit.
So tell me how you discovered
your specific slant
on the chakras.
And is it yours,
or is it something
that you brought in to teach us?
Because you have a really
clear way of describing it.
>>KING: Well, I've learned it
from so many different places
and then some things were just
added on for me in meditations
that I'm not sure
I can even answer
your question about
precisely what it is,
or where it came from.
>>LISA: So is it
primarily-- do you
start to teach through
the chakras first?
Is that your first way to
really introduce people
to their own healing energy
and their own energy field?
>>KING: It is.
The first thing I
would do is teach you
how to use a pendulum.
And I've designed
my own, these days,
because I'm so worried people
will use metal or stone which
makes it a lot harder to
read a chakra's movement.
>>LISA: Even crystals?
>>KING: Oh, crystal can cut one.
So I really recommend to people
that they start with beechwood.
And use this shape,
because this is
the best shape for
reading a chakra.
>>LISA: Now you mentioned not
to do it on myself, right?
So can you teach us
how to use this on me?
>>KING: I can.
So you would hold it about
three inches in front
of your partner,
or your friend's,
or your cousin's, seven main
chakras, going from the base
to the top of the head.
And what you, the
observer, is looking for
is clockwise movement.
Clockwise movement from the
observer's point of view,
not the subject's point of view.
And that's why it's
hard to do yourself.
Also when you try to
do it on yourself,
you have to have a
fairly developed sense
of your own energy field so
that you're not overpowering it.
Because, Lisa, this thing
is just an amplifier.
It's not magic.
It amplifies movement.
So if I hold it in front of
an air conditioning duct,
it will reflect
the air movement.
So when you hold it
in front of a chakra,
it will-- a chakra's a very
subtle, energetic center
of energy in your
personal energy field.
It will reflect motion.
And what you're
looking for, again,
is you're looking for
preferably clockwise, preferably
some kind of motion.
As opposed to dead
in the water, that's
the scientific term for it.
>>LISA: OK, no movement at all?
>>KING: None.
>>LISA: And that would mean
that that particular chakra is
blocked, right?
>>KING: Blocked, or so
often with students,
I find they're in
the wrong place.
Especially with the
first three chakras
which are a little hard to find.
Because lots of times they'll
be an inch off, or two.
And they're like,
it's not moving.
And I'm like, well,
you're nowhere
near it, that's why
it's not moving.
Then from here up,
they're pretty simple.
It's heart, throat,
third eye, crown.
Kind of hard to lose.
But one, two, and three,
especially with women
in skirts, it's pretty hard
to tell exactly where it is.
>>LISA: So they're
just energy centers
that are located in
various parts of the body.
>>KING: Along the spine.
>>LISA: Along the spine.
>>KING: Yeah, from the base
of the spine to the top.
>>LISA: OK.
And then they hold
frequencies that
represent certain emotional
aspects of your life, right?
>>KING: Wow, yes.
That's actually fairly
advanced knowledge.
Good for you.
>>LISA: I read your material.
>>KING: Yeah,
because most people
think it's the other way around.
They think the chakra's causing
the emotion, and it's not.
The emotion is making the
chakra move, or not move.
So here, let me
just demonstrate.
I'll just pick
your heart chakra.
And I see, I'm about
three inches out,
and I'm right in front of it.
And I'm getting great
clockwise movement.
And it's quite large, by
the way, good for you.
So that's just exactly
what we're looking for.
All the way up from
the base at the sacrum,
right to the top of the head.
>>LISA: Do you ever start it
or instigate it with your hand?
>>KING: No.
>>LISA: It just
starts to move itself.
>>KING: Oh yeah.
Now if your hand
shakes, or there's
air conditioning in the room or
something, be attuned to that.
>>LISA: But focus on
holding it as still as you
can so that it can move.
>>KING: Yeah, so you can
really hold it pretty still.
>>LISA: Now let's
talk about when
you find one that is
not moving or moving
in the opposite direction.
>>KING: Or elliptical,
meaning not round,
but kind of cockeyed.
>>LISA: OK.
So how do you start
to clear-- now
the pendulum itself doesn't
clear that type of energy,
right?
You need to start looking at it.
>>KING: Right.
It's just kind of like
training wheels on a bike.
It kind of tells you
what you're seeing there,
what you're sensing.
>>LISA: It's a barometer, OK.
>>KING: So I encourage
students in my programs
to first of all look at
someone's heart chakra and go,
it looks good to me.
Then test it with the pendulum
and see if you and the pendulum
agree.
And then note it, go over
and note it on your form,
on an intake form.
And then pretty soon after
you've done this for a while,
you don't need this anymore.
>>LISA: You get it.
>>KING: This is just to
support you in your learning.
>>LISA: Great, great.
So it's something that
you can sweep the body
and just look at
instinctively eventually.
>>KING: Yeah, ultimately.
And ultimately, you just glance
at somebody and you'll nail it.
This stuff is so
easy to learn, again,
because it's built
into your unconscious.
You know, Jung
always talked about
the collective unconscious.
It's very much part of us.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
So what is it, and
just how to clear it?
That's the part that
we are get stuck on.
>>KING: Let me just back up and
answer one of your questions
about how it got unclear.
So I started to say the
emotions make the chakras move.
But when we hold an emotion
and we don't process it,
that's what blocks it
and makes it stop moving.
So your partner and
you have a fight.
And you feel really
hurt about it.
And it hurts so much you
close your heart chakra.
We learn to do this
as little tiny kids.
>>LISA: Mhm, death of a
loved one, or an animal.
>>KING: Your pappy.
Oh my god.
>>LISA: Yes, that starts
when you're little.
>>KING: And so all
our lives-- I'd
like to talk about the
heart because we know
it's the easiest one to
tune into to feel yourself.
You know whether your
own heart's open or not.
And we kind of know
when our heart's closed.
So what stops our
chakras dead in the water
is taking an emotion and saying,
I'm not going to feel that.
I am going to pretend
that never happened.
That horrible, kick in the gut--
>>LISA: Otherwise
known as trauma.
Trauma is unresolved
emotion, right?
>>KING: It is.
>>LISA: So you stick it,
you compartmentalize it.
You think it's gonna
just away, and you're not
going to deal with it again.
>>KING: And instead, what
we're designed to do--
and little kids,
you'll see them.
They'll have a tantrum,
and they let it all go.
And then it's a sunny smile
and they're back to themselves.
>>LISA: No, I mean yes,
little, little kids.
But as you get into
the teenage years,
they don't have the
emotional intelligence yet
to process big trauma.
>>KING: Right.
>>LISA: And so it does.
We all have that.
Between 11 and 15 we don't
have the emotional intelligence
to process death, and divorce,
and sex, things like that.
>>KING: Or an earthquake.
Think how upset people were
over earthquakes, or fires,
or floods.
I mean, national disasters.
That can really
whack us out too.
>>LISA: And so just by
the fact that we wouldn't
have had that emotional
intelligence at that age,
we stick it away.
>>KING: Right.
We store it.
>>LISA: Put it
into a little box.
>>KING: We store it.
And then it festers.
And then when your chakra
is not moving, or when
it's moving the
wrong way-- now this
is a really interesting point.
When a chakra is going
reverse, what it's doing
is it's sending out to the
world a message from you
to the world that is
your limiting belief that
is making your
chakra do that thing.
So for example,
your partner leaves.
And you're just heartbroken.
And you decide, well,
I'm not lovable.
That's why he or she left.
So you send a message out from
this chakra going the wrong way
that I can't be loved,
or I'm not lovable.
And that's what
you'll get, of course.
And that just
establishes the truth
of how we're always saying
we create our own reality.
We do.
>>LISA: Did you find that
when you had the cancer,
did you look back and
find the limiting beliefs
that you put around
your female organs?
>>KING: I did.
And I found all
the trauma I'd had
that I never wanted
to think about.
It's not like I
didn't remember I'd
had a pretty stressful childhood
with a fair amount of abuse,
but I had just stored it.
I wasn't going to talk about.
People still don't
talk about it today,
but I certainly wasn't going to.
Yeah, and it can cause trouble.
I was in my 20s,
somebody else might
be in their 40s or their
60s when it finally erupts.
>>LISA: When it
erupts and manifests
in something like
cancer or injury.
What about accidents
and trauma where
you're getting various
types of things like that?
Can it register
into, say the back?
A lot of people have back
pain and trauma in the back.
>>KING: Yeah, it can register
anywhere in the body.
>>LISA: And stay?
>>KING: Yeah.
And the thing is you want
your energy field-- so
think of yourself as sitting
inside this bubble of energy
and these chakras are
like the focal points.
And so it's like a
beautiful bubble,
you hope, of beautiful,
clear colors.
When you stop part
of it, I will not
feel that car accident
I had last week.
That was so upsetting, I'm
not going to think about.
>>LISA: Just move
on, just move on.
>>KING: That energy
freezes, just
like your blood or your lymph.
You want it moving all the time.
And so when it stops
moving, it makes your field,
your energy field,
all muddy looking.
And ultimately, since our bodies
grow out of our energy field--
this is such a key point.
The body actually
grows out of the field.
Your body is ultimately going
to look like your field.
So if your field's all
muddy, pretty soon the body
starts to have--
it starts subtle,
with headaches and depression.
You go to the
doctor, and he goes,
I can't find anything wrong.
But your energy field,
you're already sensing it.
>>LISA: I am, because
I'm excited to learn
how to clear it.
Because I did have, I had an
accident where after I moved
I pulled a chest of
drawers down on my body.
It was off balance.
So my back has been
on fire since then.
Is there something
that you can teach
us to start to break
that energy up?
I know that
chiropractics is helping,
and the muscle stem is
helping, and all of that.
Heat, ice, heat, ice.
But I want to get to
the cellular trauma,
because it was
very traumatizing.
>>KING: Well, the first thing I
would suggest-- not necessarily
for that accident with
the chest of drawers--
but one of the first things
I would suggest for any time
you're feeling like
things didn't go well
that day would be
a clearing bath.
So a clearing bath is
a pound of sea salt,
and a pound of baking soda.
>>LISA: Baking soda.
I got into a bath with
Epsom salts that night.
Same thing, or no?
>>KING: Similar, very similar.
Stronger, stronger.
But this you can do every day.
Sea salt, baking soda.
It mimics the ocean.
>>LISA: Oh, nice.
>>KING: If it's handy, you
could go jump in the ocean.
It's never handy.
The Pacific's a little cold.
So, yes.
This would be not too hot,
20 minutes, kind of tepid.
And you should feel
better the next day.
This especially
works well if you've
been slimed by other
people in a low level way.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>KING: Not a super
hurtful, big drama thing.
But just kind of--
>>LISA: Conferences
do that, where
you gather a lot to energy.
>>KING: A lot of
negative energy,
just kind of what I call slime.
For a stronger
kind of clearing, I
would recommend, as
you just mentioned,
Epsom salts and alcohol.
Now, there's a trick to
this, you have to burn it.
So you take a pot, and
you fill it about halfway.
It has to be
ceramic, for safety,
because it's going
to get very hot.
You fill it about
halfway with Epsom salts.
And then you pour
about a tablespoon
of the highest-proof
alcohol you can get.
>>LISA: There's a what?
>>KING: Highest-proof alcohol
you can get your hands on.
It has to be pretty high
proof, because you're
going to light it.
So then you light it,
and you use a oven mitt.
And don't do what I did, I
almost burned the curtains
down one time, because
you can clear a room.
So you walk around like
this with the oven mitt.
And there's a--
>>LISA: Can you use
like a saucepan?
But it would be--
>>KING: Metal.
It has to be ceramic.
If you have a ceramic saucepan.
>>LISA: It has to be
ceramic all the way through.
>>KING: Mhm.
And I wouldn't get
anything larger than this
or you'll get too
big of a flame.
You can see it in certain
light, you'll see the flame
and there's a smoke.
And it clears-- this
is an old chef's trick.
This is how a commercial
chef would clear his kitchen.
>>LISA: The fish smell
out of the kitchen.
>>KING: The whole thing.
Just don't burn the place down.
>>LISA: So it's
highly flammable,
but does it create a smoke?
>>KING: It does.
And not a smoke,
it creates a gas.
And it's clear.
>>LISA: And you can't see it?
>>KING: Well, in a
certain light perhaps.
But you can smell it.
It has kind of a chemical smell,
and it will clear the heck out
of a room, or a person.
You just have to,
again, be very careful
as you go up and
down their body.
And go up and down their
front and their back.
>>LISA: And is it
the neutralizing
odor that comes from or the gas?
>>KING: It's the
gas, it's the gas.
You know, it works very
similar to, for example, sage.
Sage is not as strong.
And sage, the problem with
sage, when you burn sage
you're going to get a
lot of odor in the room.
And the hotel
personelle are going
to come knock on the door.
And the smoke alarm's
going to go off.
>>LISA: So these
are ways that you
can start to clear
your energy field
and start to
rebalance the chakras.
What about crystals?
>>KING: Crystal is
another good way.
You just have to
be really careful
that your crystal
matches your energy
and isn't a stronger vibration.
>>LISA: How would you know?
>>KING: Well if
you get a crystal
and you don't feel well, a day
or two later do what I did.
I took mine out to the
far reaches of my ranch
and threw it over a fence.
And then all of a
sudden I felt better.
>>LISA: You got it out.
>>KING: I got it out
of my environment.
Yeah, crystals are tricky.
>>LISA: And if I resonate
towards, maybe the amethyst.
Would I know instinctively what
I've always resonated towards?
>>KING: Probably.
>>LISA: Yeah, because I seem to
have a lot of amethyst around.
>>KING: I bet.
>>LISA: Yeah, that
makes more sense.
All right, so these are ways
to actually clear it and start
to get the-- and then you test
it again with the pendulum,
right?
>>KING: I would wait
about three days.
>>LISA: Oh, how many times and
how often should you do this?
Good question.
>>KING: Well, you should really
take a clearing bath-- that's
the sea salt and baking soda.
>>LISA: Every day?
>>KING: No, but
maybe every day where
you feel that
you've been invaded,
or experiences at work
or at home were toxic.
You know, anything like that,
I'd recommend a clearing bath.
>>LISA: What about
completing things?
Like when you
complete a schooling
or a project, or something,
can you clear the energy?
Or if you want to sell a
house, or something like that.
>>KING: You can.
And the best way to do it is
just create your own ritual.
Whatever works for you.
Have a little altar at
home with your own things
that you know work for you.
It could be an
animal totem that you
like and an image from a
tradition that you admire.
It doesn't have to be the
one you were raised in,
whatever works for you.
And you just sense into
it, and you'll know.
So it's great to have a
ritual to end something.
We've forgotten this, that
historically, of course,
we always had rituals
for the end of puberty,
and the marriage, and death.
And now we're
getting very casual.
>>LISA: Well, yes.
Many traditions have lost that.
Yes.
We're going to talk
about that in a second,
but first I want you to
take a look at this video
where Deborah takes us
through the chakras.
And this is a bit
of an exercise.
So go through this with
Deborah and you'll be able to--
and there's beautiful colors
that come throughout the video.
So you'll be able to
resonate with those colors
and balance your chakras as
you go along with this video.
So take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>Hi, I'm Deborah King.
I'm a master energy healer
and spiritual teacher.
And today I'm going to talk
to you about the energy
system of the chakras.
I'm going to help
you open and activate
the little known,
but super important
8th chakra above your head.
So you'll want to
watch this video
all the way through
so you get activated.
The chakras hold
the secrets to how
you feel about yourself
and your world.
How you get along
with other people.
The health of your body.
Your financial situation.
Whether or not your
weight's a problem.
How you make decisions.
Your spiritual advancement and
access to your spiritual gifts.
That's a lot of effect for
something you can't really see.
So ideally you know you want
your chakras spinning gently
in a certain direction.
You want them to be free from
clogged up or stagnant energy.
An energy healer can sense
the state of your chakras.
They can sense your
personal energy field
and see how it's interacting
with the unified bigger energy
field that surrounds and
inner penetrates yours.
Now if you're like
me, you're one
of those millions of people that
has already attuned themselves
to a higher level
of consciousness.
I bet you've already
done some major clearing
work on your energy system,
perhaps through meditation,
or energy healing, or maybe
by walking on the beach.
But one way or another, you're
ready to go to the next level.
If you'll allow me
to be your guide,
I'm going to take you on a
really exciting ride today
into the upper atmosphere of
your consciousness to charge up
and activate your
connection to spirit.
So the 8th chakra
is the first of what
we call the spiritual chakras.
It's maybe a foot or
two above your head,
above your crown chakra.
It's the chakra of divine
love and spiritual compassion.
It also holds all your karmic
stuff, the habitual patterns
of energy that you've clung
to lifetime after lifetime.
So when your 8th
chakra opens up,
like it will with
this activation,
you'll feel a new sense
of spiritual awareness
and your connection will be made
to a vast spiritual community.
Plus, you'll be able to
connect with your higher self
every moment for the
guidance that you want.
It's harder to work
here with color.
The 8th chakra's
color is a little bit
like ultraviolet light.
But you can imagine,
if you like,
a very deep violet light with
spiraling bands of green in it.
So let's get started.
I want you to take a deep
breath in through your nose
and exhale out through
your mouth, like this.
[DEEP BREATH]
You're going to release
any tension or stress.
Let's do it again.
[DEEP BREATH]
Let's do it one more time.
And that last breath
you're releasing any fear
you might have been holding.
There you go, beautiful.
Now as you can see here,
there's no reason to be fearful.
I've covered you in an auric
egg-shaped golden light
of protection that
repels all negativity.
Now as you stay focused
on the images that
are in front of you,
first, bring your attention
to your base chakra.
It's the root energy center.
I want you to
imagine a vast field
of a beautiful bright red color.
The color of the center of
the earth, a volcanic color.
Great.
Now moving up slightly
to your second chakra,
midway between your
base and your waist.
It's a beautiful orange color.
It's right at the sacrum.
Great.
And now moving up
again above your
waist to your third chakra.
Beautiful yellow color.
It's right in the center,
it's your solar plexus.
And now moving up again
into your heart chakra,
which is right in the
center of your chest.
A beautiful Kelly green color.
And now I'm going to take
you to your thymus, the seat
of your spiritual development.
You'll find it halfway
between your heart
chakra and your throat chakra.
Just focus on it
internally for a moment.
And from there I'll take
you to the throat chakra,
it's right in the
center of your throat.
A beautiful vibrant blue color.
Now we'll move to the very
center of your forehead,
right between your eyebrows.
The lilac of your third eye.
And finally, I take you to
the very top of your head.
Using your intention,
just visualize it.
The white gold chakra
right at the very top
of your head, your crown chakra.
And following my voice and
using my intentionality
I'm opening your
body chakras now.
I'm opening them both in
the front and in the rear.
Now I'm going to
take you higher.
I want you to imagine a silver
cord coming up from your crown
chakra and just
disappearing up into the sky
above in the upper
reaches of infinity.
This cord is your connection
to the higher dimensions.
So gently allow
your consciousness
to go up that cord
until it's about two,
or maybe three feet
above your head.
And visualize a door opening
into a beautiful light infused
room.
The room is just bathed in
the splendor of this light.
And how it looks to
you is up to you.
Just use your imagination.
So here in this room you're
meeting your higher self.
What will you say to this being
who's perfect in every respect?
Yes, that's who you really are.
Perfect.
Perfect in the eyes of
spirit, and in my eyes.
Do you have questions
for your higher self?
Perhaps you'd like
your higher self
to guide you to
the akashic records
to better understand the energy
patterns that have been created
over many lifetimes
that need cleansing now.
Perhaps you'd like to get
a better grasp on your soul
contract, or your life purpose.
This 8th chakra to which
you are now connected
holds all that
information for you.
I want you to feel the fullness
of this spiritual energy center
available to you
right here, right now.
And using my intentionality
combined with yours,
we're gently bringing that
information, that energy,
down the cord and
into your crown chakra
where it can download
into your body,
allowing your body to merge
with all that information.
Feel it coming all the way
down, down, down your body
through every chakra
until it's finally
in the soles of your feet.
And allow it to anchor
into the earth below.
Now that you're in this
enlightened and empowered
state, what all is
possible for you?
What blocks or
limitations do you
want to just to
allow to fade away?
What is becoming clear to
you about your own life?
Notice how you feel different.
You feel more open.
More connected.
More joyful.
So this sensation you are now
learning to do for yourself.
You can recreate this.
And soon you'll be
able to recreate it
for your loved ones, and one
day even for complete strangers.
Anyone can benefit
from the wonders
of this powerful 8th
chakra energy healing.
Imagine all the good you'll be
doing out there in the world
once you've tapped
into these abilities
and share this gift
with those in need.
So now I'll take
a moment and I'll
ensure that your
8th chakra is open.
And I want you to recognize
this powerful first step
on a transformational journey
to realizing your true energy
potential.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: That was very helpful,
very clear, very colorful.
Thank you for that.
And you mentioned a little
bit about initiation
before the video, what
did you mean by that?
>>KING: Well, let me tell
you how I first saw one
because I didn't know what
the word meant at all.
This was back when I was
following those ministers
and rabbis around and
watching them work.
And early on in this
study, I was sitting way
in the back of a temple and I
saw something happen up front.
And all of a sudden I
threw myself to my knees,
I felt this like ecstatic
joy, and I heard bells,
and it was pretty wild.
So then I sat down and
I said to the woman
next to me, what's going on?
And she said, oh they
called out an initiation.
So I went home and
I started reading,
I'd never heard the term.
And in the West, in all
the Western churches--
all of them-- they refer
to that as an experience
where you're getting a
higher vibration, a higher
experience of the God-force.
And starts-- that's why
I have that 8th chakra
video, because it starts with
your 8th chakra and moves up.
So that's not an
initiation, but opening
the 8th chakra prepares
you for an initiation.
>>LISA: Interesting.
And it's a vibration, right?
Again, back to that word.
>>KING: It is.
And I had teachers tell
me way back in the day
when I was working at
that energy school,
oh one day you will
initiate people.
I had just seen a
few at this point.
And I'm like right, I'm the one
that's not getting anything.
How could that be?
But they assured me, and
it's come to pass, actually.
It seems to be the one
thing I do really well.
It's really interesting.
>>LISA: We have lost so much of
that in this Western society.
>>KING: We have.
>>LISA: We really have.
Even when a girl
turns 13, there is
of course the certain
traditions that
have the-- the bar
mitzvah, bat mitzvah,
we've got the quinceaneras.
>>KING: All initiatory rights.
>>LISA: But what
about when you first
have your period, when
you cycle to the moon?
I mean, that's a
huge step for girls
as they're coming
into womanhood.
Instead right now
it's something like,
here's your product
that you can use.
And there's nothing
that talks about--
>>KING: There's no symbolism.
>>LISA: --that rite of
passage into womanhood.
>>KING: Well, and these are very
complementary spiritual rites
of passage that we're
meant to experience,
but that we've kind of lost.
So back when I was a young
energy healing student,
the goal was to have
one in a lifetime.
And I fasted and prayed,
and did all the stuff
I thought would hope make it
happen, and it finally did.
And then I discovered,
then I started
being the one who
initiated people.
Which just means I'm
a midwife, because you
bring the energy in.
Let me rephrase that.
You make it possible.
I can feel a readiness
in you, and then I
reach for the energy.
I can feel it up here,
it's above your head.
>>LISA: What about
something like menopause?
When women go--
because the change
happens over a period of years.
How do you know when
to honor that change?
And is it something that's
worthy of an initiation?
>>KING: I think it is.
And I think that women are
much more wisdom bearers
after menopause, totally.
And for me it's the best
thing that ever happened to me
because it just threw all
these energy doors open.
I couldn't believe
the difference.
Takes all the pressure off.
>>LISA: It takes all of
the emotion out of it,
so you can actually
make clearer decisions.
>>KING: Totally.
And we stop functioning as
just something that-- I mean,
I spent my whole
time pre-menopause
worrying about what some man was
going to think of how I looked
or what I said.
And then all of a
sudden I didn't care.
It was just delightful.
>>LISA: It's interesting.
The body works in
wonderful ways.
>>KING: It does.
>>LISA: For a reason.
It's been around
for a long time.
So what other types
of initiations
have you helped people through?
>>KING: Well, since 2000,
since about the year 2000,
I've noticed that where it
used to be that you had one
in a lifetime, now Lisa,
people will have two, four.
I'm just amazed.
Because spirit must
discern that we as a planet
are in a bit of a
crisis here, so they're
sending more higher
consciousness.
That's what an initiation is.
In the East they call
it Kundalini Rising.
See, it's all the same.
It comes from the
base chakra, and comes
from chakras above your head.
And the higher the initiation
is, the more ecstatic.
I had one, I'll tell
you about this one.
One time I came home from energy
school, and lo and behold, just
had one with a local
shaman in my area,
and spent the rest of the
summer sitting in an oak tree.
This drove my husband
crazy because he
would leave for
work every morning
and I'd be out there
in the tree and I'm
having an ecstatic experience
with the sun, the moon,
and the stars.
And he'd come home at
night, I'd still be there.
And he's like, you've
been here, you know.
I did it all summer.
I was just--
>>LISA: Called.
>>KING: Yeah, in
this amazing energy.
>>LISA: What types
of initiations
do men have in the
Western culture?
>>KING: They have
the same kinds,
we just don't
acknowledge them as much.
But they have the
very same kind.
Spiritually, I'm talking
spiritual initiations.
And I think they
do physically, too.
>>LISA: What do you
mean by spiritual,
what's that's the difference?
>>KING: Well, when we talk
about puberty and menopause,
we're talking about the
physical body initiating.
And spiritual initiations are
of your energy field picking up
a higher vibration.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>KING: So here's how it works.
Your soul decides to have
a life and incarnate.
To rise to a level
it couldn't before,
wherever it may have been.
We don't need to
know where that was.
But maybe you wanted to
be loyal, or courageous,
and you didn't feel
like you mastered that.
So you come in to
have this lifetime.
Spirit gives you
challenges that you really
picked ahead of time.
And then, of course,
we have no knowledge
of that when we get here.
The way you handle the challenge
with the right attitude of I'll
make lemonade out
of these lemons,
or I'll get petty and resentful
and that's the other way.
>>LISA: That's what you take
when you take the trauma
and you turn it into something
that you can teach or learn
from.
>>KING: Right.
And you have the right attitude,
you're ready for an initiation.
You're ready for
a higher vibration
to come into your energy
field and make you a higher
spiritual being
right here on Earth.
>>LISA: So for example,
if someone experienced
sexual trauma as
a child, they came
in with this lesson to learn.
>>KING: Choice.
>>LISA: As they start to
resolve it and start to get rid
of the limitations around it, or
the pain and trauma around it,
is that worthy of an initiation
so that someone can actually
be free from that?
>>KING: Totally, totally.
They'll be free and
they'll be able to teach
from that place of wisdom.
>>LISA: And can you
have multiple things
like that going on
in one lifetime?
Or do you think it's
the one big thing?
>>KING: I think it's multiple.
>>LISA: Yeah, so you could then
have the same type of thing
where it comes to
having children.
And you came in,
and you couldn't
maybe in the last lifetime.
And in this lifetime you
came in to overcome whatever
it is so that then
you could have
that experience of
motherhood and birth.
>>KING: To be mothering.
>>LISA: Yes, interesting.
Very interesting.
And same for men, they could
come in with their own types.
It could be
financial challenges.
>>KING: It could be anything.
>>LISA: Any challenge.
And once you've
done the work on it
and you've resolved it through
the limiting belief elimination
and obliterated all of
the karma around it,
you can actually have an
initiation to step out of it.
>>KING: Exactly.
>>LISA: That is brilliant.
>>KING: You're
done with that one.
Classified.
>>LISA: That is great.
That is a great way
to significantly
be done with something.
And I can think of so
many different people that
say, well, in that
segment of my life,
and then in my later years.
So we really do it naturally,
but we don't have a ceremony
around it to put
some closure to it.
Like we do with a funeral.
That puts closure, and
there's different things
around the memorial services
that, really, are all
aimed towards closure.
And that's a ceremony,
that's an initiation.
>>KING: It is.
And we're taking that ceremony,
and we're compressing it.
So now we're expected to
be back at work on Monday,
with one tear, don't want the
mascara to run at the funeral.
It makes it really
hard for people.
>>LISA: That's an
initiation they
could go-- it's an
initiation for the spirit.
>>KING: Yeah, we
need time to grieve.
And it's very much
an initiation.
>>LISA: For both.
For the soul to move on, and
for the living to move through.
>>KING: Right.
>>LISA: Because moving
on doesn't happen so fast
in that situation.
OK, so you were going to tell
us about the wildest initiation
you've ever seen.
Could you share that
with us, or did you
already share that
with the church?
>>KING: You know,
I've seen so many
its really hard
for me to pick one.
But I want to tell
you about something
I saw at John of God's that
was pretty interesting.
I flew down there one day
with zero preparation,
thinking that he's elderly--
you know, he's gotten older.
And I had not been there.
And this was a long time
ago, and thought I should go.
But I like to start things
with no-- having not have read
anything.
I don't want to have somebody
else tell me what to think.
So I showed up knowing zip.
And I walk in, and there's
people everywhere and no place
to sit.
And it's hot.
You know, it's Brazil.
And it's fairly primitive.
And I'm looking around, my
husband and I are together,
and I thought, oh there's a
place to sit, no one's there.
So I went over and plopped down.
And about five minutes
later, John of God, who I've
never seen before, but I
figured it out within a second.
He came in from behind
me, I was on the stage.
That's why no one
was sitting there.
And I'm-- I'm right on the--
and I'm like, oh great,
great place to be, that's why
all those people are in front
of me.
So he walks in from behind,
and he's in a altered state.
But in a state where
he's not conscious,
he's left his
consciousness behind.
Somewhere in the green room,
or somewhere in the back.
Which is very risky, this is
very old style energy healing.
We haven't done that in the
West since maybe the '40s.
It's kind of high
risk because you
don't know who's going
to come in and take over
your consciousness.
So that's the first thing I
noticed, but it was really
interesting because he
used a form of-- also,
we don't countenance
this here in the West--
he used a form of psychic
surgery involving knives.
So he took a knife without
looking, reached for a knife
off a handler's
tray, and just cut
into this woman who was standing
next to him right behind me.
She falls into a wheelchair,
and they wheel her out.
I was like, wow, this is
going to be interesting.
>>LISA: Oh my gosh.
Like physically cut into her?
My goodness.
>>KING: Startling.
So that's kind of a small
pocket of energy healing.
I've seen that only done
in Haiti and in Brazil
where they actually use knives.
>>LISA: So we want to take
a look at this next video.
Tell us a little bit
about what this is about.
>>KING: Well, in this
next video, what I'm doing
is I'm helping you
activate your thymus gland.
Now, we all think of the thymus
as the seat of immune function,
but Lisa, actually it's the seat
of our spiritual development.
And it's incredibly
important that it be opened.
And what we tend to
do, we in the West
especially, is to close
it down as we get older.
And what this video
does is open it.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>Hi, I'm Deborah
King, and I have
a message of awakening
for you today.
I'm a master energy healer
and a spiritual teacher.
And over the last
nearly three decades,
I've been fortunate enough
to practice energy healing
and bring about real physical
change in the lives of tens
of thousands of people
from all around the world.
And one question that I'm asked
all the time is where do I
get all the energy I have?
Truly, I can work all day, every
day, and just never get tired.
I just seem to get
more energized.
So you may be
wondering yourself,
how you could access
all this energy?
Today I'm going to share
what seems like a simple,
but is actually
extremely profound
and powerful technique
with you that you
can use in your daily
life just like I do.
And if you become an
energy healer like me,
it will be an essential
one for you to have.
So this process is
designed to activate
a key point in your body
and your energy field that
will open and clear your
channel to the unified field
of all energy, also
known as the divine.
And it will allow you
to focus your abilities
to connect to the
masters of the universe.
So to do this, I'm going to
attract, connect, and transmit
a field of energy to you that
will awaken your inner energy
healer.
For this exercise you want
to focus your attention
on your thymus
gland, right here.
Why the thymus, you might ask?
Well, it's a super
important place.
It's the seat of your
spiritual development.
When it's open, and
expanded, and getting bigger,
your thymus acts like a
beacon that lets all the
higher entities in the
vast spiritual realm
know that you're
working for the light.
It becomes your
personal signature.
So your thymus is
located just midway
between your heart chakra, which
is in the center of your chest,
and your throat chakra, which
is in the center of your throat.
It's right in between.
You can feel it a little bit.
It's a little bit
rounded, it sticks out
a bit from your chest wall.
And if you can't feel it, some
people's are hard to discern,
that's OK.
You just imagine you can.
And I'm going to use
my unbending intent,
I'm trained to do this, to
activate your thymus today.
I'm just using intentionality,
but in a very significant way.
And in doing so, I'm reaching
out to you energetically
and activating it now.
I want you to
visualize your thymus
like it's a flower, the
color of pink quartz.
Feel it now, opening
and expanding.
And opening wider,
and expanding further.
You might feel
warmth in the area.
You might sense a
fluttering little feeling.
Or perhaps you'll
feel like you're
wrapped in soft pink color.
There's no right
way or wrong way
to feel what's happening
to you right now.
Just let it be, and know
that it's occurring.
So you've probably read
that your thymus began
to shrink about the
time you were 16,
but now you've reversed that
dynamic and yours is opening
and expanding because
I've just activated it.
Tonight, or perhaps
a night soon,
you may wake up and feel
it tapping or pulsing.
Now, I don't want
you to worry, that's
actually a very good sign.
My thymus pulsed
like that for years.
As your thymus continues
to open and expand,
you'll start to receive
special initiations
into higher spiritual levels.
You'll start to prepare
for those initiations.
So this is a really, really
significant activation.
This thymus opening also
allows you to become aware of,
and start to use your
unique spiritual gifts.
And you have some very unique
gifts that are just for you.
Do you know what your gifts are?
Maybe you can hear things or
see things on other planes.
Perhaps you're very
persuasive and you
can help people in that regard.
Or maybe you have
the gift of healing,
and it just needs
to be activated.
Every person has their
own unique gifts.
Just keep allowing your thymus
to open as you hear my voice.
And if you want to,
you can very, very,
very gently tap on it and
intend for it to open further.
So the thymus is
not only the seat
of your spiritual development.
As you know, it's also the
seat of your immune function.
If your thymus got
overwhelmed or fatigued
by a lot of heavy emotion, it
can interfere with your health.
So today's the day.
You want it to be open and
charged from here on out.
And you'll find this process
not only serves as a way
to protect you and
keep you healthy,
but it's also an
expert level way
to prepare yourself to give
powerful energy healings.
Now as I initiate you into
higher and higher planes
of the spirit, I want you to
continue to use this technique
to activate and supercharge
your spiritual development.
This will strengthen
your bond to the pantheon
of light workers that
have proceeded you.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: OK, so we just learned
how to open the thymus,
but do you ever
recommend closing it,
or does it just stay open?
>>KING: It stays open.
And the more that
you-- and you can
replay this video, by the way.
And the more you
replay it and focus
on opening your own
thymus, the better.
First of all, it enhances
your health and your immune.
And secondly, it prepares
you for higher initiations,
it really does.
>>LISA: Interesting,
fascinating.
I've learned a lot
about energy medicine,
and initiation, and
karma, and everything.
Where can people learn a little
bit more about what you teach?
>>KING: Well, just swing
over to deborahkingcenter.com
and just kind of
click around there.
>>LISA: And people can learn,
go through classes, courses,
watch the videos,
whatever it is.
So that they can
actually-- but you really
have such a clear way of
explaining everything,
so I really appreciate it.
As much as I'm immersed
in energy medicine,
I've learned several
new things today.
So thank you very much.
>>KING: Excellent, thank you.
>>LISA: I appreciate that.
>>KING: Really fun being here.
>>LISA: I love that.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Deborah King, you
can go to gaiamtv.com
and you can watch the
replay there and share it
with your friends.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.